---
title: Documentation Browser
---

This document and the other docs here under
[Documentation](/documentation/) are using the documentation
browser. Basically everything is just pages written in
[markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). The
"Documentation Browser" is a little bit of Ruby that renders the
actual page content with a navigation index on the left side, this is
explained in more detail further down. It's quick, dirty and simple
and won't scale to very large sets of documentation. However, the idea
is to have a quick way to create some docs to get your users get
started with your project for example. If you need more, there likely
are better tools available for the job.

### Creating new pages

You can just create an ascii text file with content written in
markdown, name it `foobar.md` and place it in
`source/documentation`. The frontmatter on top should set a title for
the document, but other than that it is just plain and simple
markdown. You can add subdirectories if you wish.

### Navigation by Magic?

To make your docs show up in the left hand side navigation tree, you
need to add it to `data/docs.yml`. The data/ folder in middleman can
be used to create quick and dirty data structures that are separate
from the documents, which sometimes is useful. Basically it's a hash
data structure of key/value pairs

The way things work in Middleman by default, is that a file named
`source/documentation/foobar.md` gets an url of
`/documentation/foobar/index.html`. By making up a bunch of markdown
files with your content you end up with a bunch of documents. To shows
these in your document browser, our convention is that you create the
document index tree in an yml structure. This is a conscious decision
so that it is easy for you to define the order and structure of the
documentation index also, which is not that easy if it were
autogenerated for example. If you find maintenance tedious, you could
always write a script that generates the yml file for you.

In any case, to have a header (non-link label defining a section for example) and a link to an actual document you can put this in the docs.yml:

    - Getting Started:
      Basic Concepts: /documentation/
    - Specialized Components:
      Blogging: /documentation/blogging/
      Doc Browser: /documentation/docs/
    - Design:
      Template Structure: /documentation/templates/
  
Observant readers will have noticed a similarity between the above and the actual documentation index present on this page on the left side.

