# Replacing the Red Hat Virtualization Manager SSL Certificate

**Warning:** Do not change the permissions and ownerships for the `/etc/pki` directory or any subdirectories. The permission for the `/etc/pki` and the `/etc/pki/ovirt-engine` directory must remain as the default 755.

You want to use your organization's commercially signed certificate to identify your Red Hat Virtualization Manager to users connecting over HTTPS.

**Note:** Using a commercially issued certificate for HTTPS connections does not affect the certificate used for authentication between your Manager and hosts. They will continue to use the self-signed certificate generated by the Manager.

**Prerequisites**

This procedure requires a PEM formatted certificate from your commercial certificate issuing authority, a *.nokey* file, and a *.cer* file. The *.nokey* and *.cer* files are sometimes distributed as a certificate-key bundle in the P12 format.

This procedure assumes that you have a certificate-key bundle in the *P12* format.

**Important:** For new Red Hat Virtualization installations, you must complete all of the steps in this procedure. If you upgraded from a Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization 3.6 environment with a commercially signed certificate already configured, only steps 1, 8, and 9 are required.

**Replacing the Red Hat Virtualization Manager Apache SSL Certificate**

1. Add your commercially issued certificate to the host-wide trust store.

        # cp YOUR-3RD-PARTY-CERT.pem /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors
        # update-ca-trust

2. The Manager has been configured to use `/etc/pki/ovirt-engine/apache-ca.pem`, which is symbolically linked to `/etc/pki/ovirt-engine/ca.pem`. Remove the symbolic link.

        # rm /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/apache-ca.pem

3. Save your commercially issued certificate as `/etc/pki/ovirt-engine/apache-ca.pem`. The certificate chain must be complete up to the root certificate. The chain order is important and should be from the last intermediate certificate to the root certificate.

        mv YOUR-3RD-PARTY-CERT.pem /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/apache-ca.pem

4. Back up your *P12* bundle, and then move it to `/etc/pki/ovirt-engine/keys/apache.p12`.

5. Extract the key from the bundle.

        # openssl pkcs12 -in  /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/keys/apache.p12 -nocerts -nodes > /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/keys/apache.key.nopass

6. Extract the certificate from the bundle.

        # openssl pkcs12 -in /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/keys/apache.p12 -nokeys > /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/certs/apache.cer

7. Restart the Apache server.

        # systemctl restart httpd.service

8. Create a new trust store configuration file. 

        # vi /etc/ovirt-engine/engine.conf.d/99-custom-truststore.conf

    Add the following content and save the file. 

        ENGINE_HTTPS_PKI_TRUST_STORE="/etc/pki/java/cacerts"
        ENGINE_HTTPS_PKI_TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD=""

9. Restart the `ovirt-engine` service. 

        systemctl restart ovirt-engine.service

Your users can now connect to the Administration and User portals without being warned about the authenticity of the certificate used to encrypt HTTPS traffic.

**Important:** Replacing the certificate can cause the log collector to fail, as documented in [https://access.redhat.com/solutions/458713](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/458713). To avoid this failure, edit the log collector's configuration:

1. Export the CA certificate from the CA server and copy it to the Red Hat Virtualization Manager server.

2. Point the log collector to the new location by adding the following to `/etc/ovirt-engine/logcollector.conf`:

         cert-file=/path/to/new/CA/file
