---
title: Editable Network Names
category: feature
authors: lgoldber
wiki_category: Feature
wiki_title: Features/Editable Network Names
wiki_revision_count: 1
wiki_last_updated: 2017-10-23
feature_name: Editable Network Names
feature_modules: engine,api
feature_status: Proposed
---

# Editable Network Names

### Summary

Allow users to edit network names even while attached to hosts.

## Owner

*   Name: Leon Goldberg (lgoldber)

<!-- -->

*   Email: <lgoldber@redhat.com>

## Detailed Description

Currently, network names are only editable while not being attached to any host. This is primarily due to the mapping
between the network names to the VDSM (interface) names being immutable; once a network is attached to a host, a linux
bridge valid VDSM name is generated by engine, and a mapping of the network name to VDSM name is stored in the database.

This RFE proposes 2 changes to this functionality that will allow network names to be modifiable even while
attached to hosts:

1) Upon network creation, let users decide whether they'd like the network's name to be editable*:
    - If editable, the network's VDSM name is set to be dervied from the network's GUID (onXXX...) regardless
      of whether the network's name could be used as VDSM name. This allows the name to be edited without any
      changes to VDSM name on the host side.
    - If not editable, current behavior remains. VDSM name may or may not equal the network name, and further changes
      while attached to hosts are prohibited as they may require changes to VDSM name.

* How problematic would it be to only include the editable option with GUID based vdsm name as the only option? 
From a legacy consideration point of view there will be some disparity; users will encounter
both GUID and network name VDSM names, however this shouldn't affect functionality and will simplify both
implementation and user experience. As VDSM name reporting/exposure on engine side is planned in this RFE as well,
debugging will be less of an issue as well.


2) Modification of editable state of network names of existing networks*:
    - Editable to non-editable is prohibited
    - Non-editable to editable is allowed

* There are no technical considerations behind these decisions and are supposedly based on making debugging/user
experience easier. Personally, I don't see it. In both scenarios both GUID and network name based VDSM name are possible:

Editable (GUID VDSM name) to non-editable (GUID/network VDSM name) is prohibited
Non-editable (GUID/network VDSM name) to editable (GUID vdsm name) is allowed

In other words, the latter (non-editable to editable) isn't any more consistent than the former but is allowed. In both scenarios
VDSM name may eventually be either the GUID or the network name variation. In a scenario where a non-editable network
has a network name based VDSM name ("net-1") is changed to be non-editable, "net-1" will remain as VDSM name,
while newly created networks that are editable will have a GUID based VDSM name.

Either disallow state modifications or allow both, IMO.


## Benefit to oVirt

Users will be able to modify network names even while attached to hosts. This alleviates the users from the need to detach networks
from hosts/VMS just for the sake of modifying network names. 


## Suggested Solution

Stage 1, backend support for network creation:
A new boolean (a la "nameIsEditable") will be introduced in network's business entity. Upon network creation, the parameter will be set
based on user preference. The parameter will affect VDSM name generation; if it is set to true, VDSM name is set based on GUID regardless
whether the network name is can be used as a bridge name. if it is set to false, VDSM name is generated as usual.

Current restriction to name changes should be lifted, and instead a new validation should be introduced that takes "nameIsEditable" under
consideration.

REST support is introduced, with the new boolean set to false by default due to backwards considerations.

Stage 2, UI:
VDSM name is currently only displayed on host side. "VDSM" or "Interface" name column should be added in networks(?) or/and inside
a network entry.

"Editable Name" checkbox is added in the network creation dialog. It should be displayed and be grayed out in the network edit dialog.

Stage 3, Editable state modification:
The "Editable Name" checkbox should no longer be grayed out and should be operational.
